# Objective

This lab will provide you with and introduction to using `git` with git servers like GitHub.

Completion time: 30 minutes

# Prerequisites

You need a git client on your workstation.  If you are a DevNet event, such as at CiscoLive! the workstations are pre-installed with `git`.  You should already be comfortable with `git` in a local environment.  If you're not, feel free to review the [git Intro](/labs/git-intro/step/1) lab and come back.  

**Note:** Additionally, to complete the exercises in this lab you need to have a [GitHub account](https://github.com).

# Git servers

`git` was designed to be a distributed and decentralized version control system.  Each team member keeps a replica on their workstation.  So it's easier to share changes, the repo can be stored remotely as well.  A `git` server can be as simple as storing your repo on a file server.  But, a `git` server can exist in several forms using: `git` protocol, HTTP, and SSH access to the remote `git` repo.  We will not cover all of these options in this tutorial.

# GitHub, Bitbucket, Gitlab

There are quite a few popular `git` services out there, including GitHub, Bitbucket from Atlassian, and Gitlab.  There are commonalities among them, and so we will cover the main use cases.  Because it is readily accessible, we'll use GitHub in these examples, but don't take this as an endorsement per se.

# Creating a remote repository

If you don't have a GitHub account, you need to create one.  And feel free to try out Bitbucket or Gitlab, if you prefer.  While the steps may be slightly different, the concepts are the same.

On [GitHub](https://github.com):

1. Find the "New repository" button
1. Provide a name and description of your repo
1. Do not initialize the repo with a README (if you do, we can add an extra argument in one of the later commands.)
1. Click the "Create repository" button

You should see a screen that provides you with Quick Setup information.

Since we already have a repo from the `git` intro lab, you'll want to look at the section:

```
git remote add origin git@github.com:<your_username>/<your_repo>.git
git push -u origin master
```

Back on the workstation, in your repository, you'll simply want to copy and paste those commands into the command line.

Once you press enter, you should see a response message like:

```
Counting objects: 9, done.
Delta compression using up to 8 threads.
Compressing objects: 100% (6/6), done.
Writing objects: 100% (9/9), 782 bytes | 0 bytes/s, done.
Total 9 (delta 2), reused 0 (delta 0)
To git@github.com:<your_username>/<your_repo>.git
 * [new branch]      master -> master
Branch master set up to track remote branch master from origin.
```

You've now successfully shared your code into a remote repository!
