# Pull Requests

`git` includes a concept of pull requests.  In many open source projects, but this also can exist within a company, you may not have committer rights to a repository.  But, you might find a bug or want to offer an enhancement to that code.  In other version control systems, you would submit a patch to the repository owner.

With `git` you can submit a pull request against the "upstream" repository.  The upstream repository is likely that read-only repository we mentioned earlier.

`git` has the built-in feature `git request-pull`, but since we're working on GitHub, we will use GitHub's version.

# Forking

Let's try out forking and submitting pull requests with a sample project on GitHub:

1. Navigate to the repo `upgraded-guacamole` [https://github.com/aroach/upgraded-guacamole](https://github.com/aroach/upgraded-guacamole)
1. You'll need to be logged into GitHub, and then click on the "Fork" button.
1. This will copy `upgraded-guacamole` to your profile on GitHub.
1. Copy the `git` URL of your forked version of `upgraded-guacamole`.  It will look something like `https://github.com/<your_username>/upgraded-guacamole.git`.
1. In your terminal, change back to your `src` directory.
1. Type in `git clone https://github.com/<your_username>/upgraded-guacamole.git`.  This copies the public repo to your local workstation.
1. Now you can make changes to `upgraded-guacamole`.
1. Commit your changes and push those.  (e.g. `git commit -a -m "my commit" && git push origin master`)
1. Navigate back to your profile page, and click on the "New pull request" button.
1. Add any helpful comments, and click "Create pull request"

That's it!  Now you've created a pull request against a public project, and the maintainers of that project can evaluate your work for inclusion.

**Note:**  If you're not working on your own computer, don't forget to logout of GitHub!

<hr>
&copy; 2015 Cisco Systems, Inc.<br>
This work is licensed under a <a rel="license" href="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/">Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License</a>.
