labs/git-intro/1.md, before:

# Objective

This lab will provide you with the fundamentals of the distributed version control system `git`.

Completion time: 30 minutes

# Prerequisites

You will need a git client on your workstation.  If you are a DevNet event, such as at CiscoLive!, the workstations are pre-installed with `git`.

# What is version control vs. distributed version control?

Unlike version control systems like `subversion`, `git` is a **distributed** version control system.  What this means is that `git` is really great for sharing code with many individuals, and still being able to keep your changes in-sync, properly versioned, with a complete replica of the commits and repo content.  

**Note:** GitHub is not the same as `git`.  GitHub is a company and a service that has popularized the `git` protocol, and provides a centralized community for discovering code.  

As a small bit of trivia, `git` was largely created by Linus Torvalds -- the founder of the Linux kernel.

# Getting started with `git config`

So that you can get credit (or blame) for the work that you've contributed, you need to associate your name and email address with your work.  To do that in `git`, you use the `git config` command.

```
git config --global user.name "Your Name Comes Here"
git config --global user.email you@yourdomain.example.com
```

Now you're all set to start contributing your code!

<hr>
&copy; 2015 Cisco Systems, Inc.<br>
This work is licensed under a <a rel="license" href="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/">Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License</a>.

Commit message:

add windows github icon image

labs/git-intro/1.md, after:

# Objective

This lab will provide you with the fundamentals of the distributed version control system `git`.

Completion time: 30 minutes

# Prerequisites

You will need a git client on your workstation.  If you are a DevNet event, such as at CiscoLive!, the workstations are pre-installed with `git`, and you must open the git shell.  Find the icon on the taskbar that looks like:

![](assets/images/gwindows_logo.png)

# What is version control vs. distributed version control?

Unlike version control systems like `subversion`, `git` is a **distributed** version control system.  What this means is that `git` is really great for sharing code with many individuals, and still being able to keep your changes in-sync, properly versioned, with a complete replica of the commits and repo content.  

**Note:** GitHub is not the same as `git`.  GitHub is a company and a service that has popularized the `git` protocol, and provides a centralized community for discovering code.  

As a small bit of trivia, `git` was largely created by Linus Torvalds -- the founder of the Linux kernel.

# Getting started with `git config`

So that you can get credit (or blame) for the work that you've contributed, you need to associate your name and email address with your work.  To do that in `git`, you use the `git config` command.

```
git config --global user.name "Your Name Comes Here"
git config --global user.email you@yourdomain.example.com
```

Now you're all set to start contributing your code!

<hr>
&copy; 2015 Cisco Systems, Inc.<br>
This work is licensed under a <a rel="license" href="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/">Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License</a>.
