# Adding files

We have an initialized, but empty repository.  

In our source directory (`git-intro`), create a file `first.txt`.

Open `first.txt` in a text editor, and add the message:

`Our best thoughts came from others.`

Save these changes.

Type `git status` again.

You should see a message like this:

```
On branch master

Initial commit

Untracked files:
  (use "git add <file>..." to include in what will be committed)

	first.txt

nothing added to commit but untracked files present (use "git add" to track)
```

As you can see, `git` recognizes that there is a new file in the directory, and it knows that it's not being tracked.  

Next, we need to add `first.txt` to "stage" your work, and then "commit" your work.  An important concept in `git` is the "stage".  The "stage" is an intermediate phase where you can assemble your changes before you then "commit" your work.  This also allows you (if you like) to stage small modifications to the same file as you work on it.

As you can see in the status, you need to execute `git add <file>` to stage your work.  

Do that, and then execute `git status` again.  You should see the following:

```
On branch master

Initial commit

Changes to be committed:
  (use "git rm --cached <file>..." to unstage)

	new file:   first.txt
```

Okay, you'll notice that there are now "staged" changes in the form of `new file:   first.txt`

# Commit your changes

In order to store your changes in your git repo, you need to commit them.  Now that you have staged changes, you commit them by executing `git commit -m "Add inspirational quote"`.  The `-m "<message>"` is used to add a description of your changes in a human readable form.  As you gain experience with git, there are a lot of opinionated folks out there who can help you write excellent commit messages.  For now, we'll just keep it simple and move ahead.

Type `git status` again.  You will see git reply with:

```
[master (root-commit) 7be53cc] Add inspirational quote
 1 file changed, 1 insertion(+)
 create mode 100644 first.txt
```

Note that the number and letter combination `7be53cc` contained in `[master (root-commit) 7be53cc]`.  Yours will be different than the ones in this tutorial.  Git uses a SHA1 hash to file away your changes.  When someone asks you, "What's your commit hash?", this is the number they are asking for!
