# Objective

This lab will provide you with information about using `git` branching.

Completion time: 30 minutes

# Prerequisites

You will need a git client on your workstation.  If you are a DevNet event, such as at CiscoLive! the workstations are pre-installed with `git`.  You should already be comfortable with `git` in a local environment.  If you're not, feel free to review the [git Intro](/labs/git-intro/step/1) lab and come back.

# Isolating Changes

Let's say you have a new feature that you're working on.  You might have to refactor some of your code, and you want to be able to checkin your changes as you make progress.  However, you don't want to box yourself in a corner and prevent easy changes to your production code.  In order to manage this type of situation, you need to isolate your changes, and so you should use `git` branching.

# git branch

Branching is pretty simple, you just execute the command `git branch <branch name>`!

What that does is to allow you to make changes in an area that won't affect the `master` branch.  One convention in `git` is that the main branch is typically named `master`.

Now you're basically operating in a parallel universe until you merge your changes back into `master`.

In the `git-intro` directory you created in the [git Intro](/labs/git-intro/step/1):

```
$ git branch shakespeare
$ git branch
* master
  shakespeare
```

Now, you need to switch to your branch.

```
$ git checkout shakespeare
Switched to branch 'shakespeare'
```

You can shorten this into a single command like this:

```
$ git checkout -b shakespeare
Switched to a new branch 'shakespeare'
```

<hr>
&copy; 2015 Cisco Systems, Inc.<br>
This work is licensed under a <a rel="license" href="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/">Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License</a>.
